[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard,
Host of Mystery Teachings.
Today, we're going to meditate
on the archetypes of Death
and Temperance.
Together, they help us move
through big life changes
with balance and grace.
Death is the great
initiator who helps
us understand the cycles of
transformation and renewal.
While Temperance helps
us to adapt to those
changes and evolve
towards greater wholeness.
Here's a formula
that you can follow
for working with these
two archetypes of Death
and Temperance.
We'll first work with
one card at a time,
beginning with Death.
Once you're ready, find
the Death card in your deck
and take it out.
Place this card in front
of you at eye level.
If you have a meditation
stool or cushion,
sit on that in front of a table
and place the card upright
on the table.
Bring yourself into a relaxed
position and a light meditative
state.
Take several deep breaths.
Relax your body.
And begin to quiet
and empty your mind.
Bring yourself into a positive,
or at least a neutral state
of being so that nothing
is disturbing you
mentally or emotionally.
And really just relax into
a state of peace and quiet.
Once you've connected to
this state of inner peace,
open your eyes and look
at the image of the Death
card for about 5 to 10 minutes.
Study its imagery,
its symbolism,
take in all the details.
As you're studying
it, really contemplate
the meaning of each symbol.
Memorize these details.
Ingrain them upon your mind.
We'll remain silent now
for the next five minutes
as we now meditate on the
symbolism of the card.
[MUSIC CONTINUES]
Next, we want to take
the image inside and work
with it in our mind for another
10 minutes with our eyes
closed.
Really bring that image
firmly into your mind.
Build the image up
from your memory.
Imagine that the frame of
the card was a doorway.
And on the other
side of that door
is the scenery that
the card depicts.
Build up all of that imagery.
Recreate all the details,
the colors, the characters,
what they're doing.
Create this static image
in your mind first.
And hold it for
about 10 minutes.
And once the image is firmly
established in your mind,
now, let it come to life.
Walk through that door
way into the scenery
and let it take on a three
dimensional landscape
around you.
Use all five of your senses
in your creative imagination
to bring this whole
setting to life.
And observe the characters
and the scenery for a while.
Notice what they do.
How they behave.
Maybe they have a message.
And feel and sense the
energy that Death emanates.
[MUSIC CONTINUES]
Once you connect to this
energy, the next step
is to merge with
Death, become Death.
Allow this archetype to
become alive within you.
You are the Death archetype.
Really feel this waking
up inside of you.
See yourself in the position
of Death within this setting.
And then once you feel
integrated with this energy,
stand up and actually take
on the posture of Death.
Assume his archetypal form.
Imagine yourself being in
a full suit of black armor,
riding a white horse, holding
the reins in your right hand,
and a banner in your left.
And from this position,
say this affirmation,
"I am the child of the
great transformers,
and the Lord of the
gates of Death."
"Every ending is
a new beginning.
I am ready to transform."
And feel that
affirmation reverberating
throughout your being,
activating this energy
within your cells,
and really integrating
into you and into your life.
Once you feel
complete with that,
we're now going to do the same
process with the Temperance
key.
So find the Temperance
key in your deck.
Take it out.
Place it in front of you
on your meditation stool,
placing it on the table.
And with your eyes open,
begin to study and meditate
upon it for 5 to 10
minutes, taking in all
those details, all the symbols.
Notice the subtleties that
you might have missed before.
There's many layers of
things to be revealed here.
So memorize the imagery and
the symbolism of this card.
Ingrain it upon your mind.
[MUSIC CONTINUES]
And then after those first 5
to 10 minutes of studying it,
you're going to
now close your eyes
and take it inside
you for 10 minutes
and work with it
in your inner mind.
Build this image up
within your mind's eye.
Imagine that the frame of
the card is like a doorway.
And on the other side is
the angel of Temperance.
Recreate that image inside.
Really solidify it
within your mind
and impress it upon
your subconscious.
[MUSIC CONTINUES]
After those 10 minutes of
working with it with your eyes
closed, the next step is to
let the angel come to life.
Move through the doorway
into the scenery of this key
and let it take on a three
dimensional virtual reality
experience.
Use your active imagination,
use all five of your senses,
and bring this key to life.
Let the angel become animated
and observe what he does.
Feel the energy and the
ways of being of Temperance.
And perhaps, Temperance
also has a message.
Receive and just take
all of this energy in.
And once you feel a connection
with the energy of Temperance,
next you're going to
merge with Temperance,
become the angel of Temperance.
Allow him to become
alive within you.
See and feel yourself
as this being.
And when you start to feel
integrated with this energy,
you're going to actually
stand up and take
on the posture of Temperance.
Assume this archetypal form.
Feel those angelic
wings upon your back.
Imagine your right foot
standing in a pool of water,
while your left foot is
standing on solid Earth.
And you hold two
chalices in your hands,
mixing the elixir of life
back and forth between them.
And as you do this, you're
going to state this affirmation,
"I am the daughter of the
reconcilers and the bringer
forth of life."
"I am the alchemist.
I harmonize the opposites."
Feel that affirmation
reverberating
through your being,
activating your cells,
awakening and integrating
this energy deeply within you.
Once you feel
complete with that,
we're now going to work
with both cards together.
So place both the Death
key and the Temperance key
next to each other,
with Death on the left
and Temperance on the right.
And meditate upon them together.
As you do, notice how they
contrast with one another.
Notice also how they
complement each other.
How do these two keys connect?
Death stimulates change
and transformation
within our lives.
While Temperance helps
you to thrive upon those
changes and find the balance.
Finally, take these energies
and express them into your life.
So we want to outwardly manifest
these energies in our life.
Some examples of
how to do that would
be to bring the colors
into your environment
or into your clothing.
So for example, in Death, we
see a lot of black and white.
While in Temperance, we
see both white and red.
Another thing to
do is to meditate
upon these symbols and these
images daily for the next week.
And keep working with the
affirmations that we just used.
Contemplate the
meaning of each card
and how it applies to your life.
And watch for these archetypes
to appear both in your dreams,
as well as in synchronistic
events within your life.
And analyze and pay
attention to the messages
that they're bringing you.
Especially also
pay close attention
to how you embody the strengths
and the weaknesses of each
of these keys.
And then consciously
work to make improvements
in these areas.
And then realize, again,
that these archetypes,
when we work with them,
they will set forces
in motion in our life.
So if we're going to engage with
this in an experiential way,
then really commit to seeing
this all the way through.
Work with each
card in its order.
Don't skip steps.
Make it all the way
through this series
and really give
it your attention.
Join me again as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of Tarot, and how
they can help us to make our
big shift in consciousness.